= Typeout

Typeout is a plain text formatting language designed around two goals:

* Syntax simple enough for computer illiterate users
* Easily typed into an HTML textbox, meaning no tabs or extra spaces.

It is also a set of libraries in different programming languages for converting
Typeout formatted text into HTML. The primary implementation is in Ruby, which
has been more or less directly translated into Javascript.

Typeout is inspired by:

* Markdown http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
* Textile http://textism.com/tools/textile/
* Creole http://www.wikicreole.org/

*Author*::    Connor McKay (mailto:connor@verticalforest.com)
*Version*::   1.4.1 (2010-7-8)
*Copyright*:: Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Connor McKay. All rights reserved.
*License*::   MIT License (http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
*Website*::   http://github.com/greneholt/typeout

== Requires

Ruby version:

* Sanitize >= 1.2.1

Javascript version:

* MooTools Core >= 1.2.4

== Installation

Latest stable release:

  gem install typeout

== Usage

Ruby:

  Typeout.convert(text)

Javascript:

  var text = new TypeOut(text);
  text.toHTML();

== Syntax

  ---
  Code block
  ---

  = Level 1 Header
  == Level 2 Header, etc.

  * Unordered
  * List

  # Ordered
  # List

  * Multilevel
  * Unordered
  ** List
  ** With
  *** Multiple
  * Asterisks

  * Mixed
  * Unordered
  *# And
  *# Ordered
  *# Nested
  * List

  ~~~
  Four score and seven years ago, blockquotes use at least three tildes at
  beginning and end.
  ~~~

  Average paragraph containing *bold text*, _italic text_, and a
  [link to google](http://google.com) and some `inline code`.

  Another paragraph with a [link](http://google.com):button with a class of "button".

  Images

  !(http://example.com/an_image.png)

  !(http://example.com/logo.png)[An image with optional alt text]


  Name: Jane Alice
  Age: 25
  Favorite food: Pizza

  Text at the beginning of a line followed by a colon will be automatically bolded.

Newlines in the middle of a paragraph are preserved in Typeout, meaning
that a paragraph cannot be split across multiple lines.

Plain html can be preserved intact by surrounding it in [html], [/html]
pairs. It will be sanitized using the Sanitize library in the Ruby version.

== License

Copyright (c) 2010 Connor McKay

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.